# Assignment2

## Set up
1. Clone the repository using git
2. The project consists of three projects, Assignment1, Assignment1.tests and org.xtext.example.mydsl1 which needs to imported seperatly into eclipse.


## Assignment 1
<h1>Content</h1>
<p>
 The ecore model contains classes and their relations. The programme class has a name and multiple specialisations. The specialisation class has a name and a refrence to a programme and eventually a lower level specialisation if this is a specialisation which branches from another specialisations. The semester class has a link to a programme or specialisation, a semester number and a refrence to multiple courseInSemester. The courseInSemester class is a relation class between Semester and course and indicates if the course is mandatory or not. Course contains general info about the course and has no refrences. IndividualStudyPlan has a refrence to multiple SemesterInStudyplan which has a refrence to semester and multiple electives which represents a slot for a course in the schedule. The elective has a refrence to a course and a refrence to multiple exam attepmts. Grade is a datatype which limits the grade in a examresult to have one of six approved values.
</p>

<p>
  In ecore.util.Ecorevalidator some validations have been implemented. validateSpecialisation_n checks that otTooManyMandatoryPoints and validateProgramme_notTooManyMandatoryPoints checks that a specialisation or programme does not contain more than 30 credits in mandatory courses. validateSemesterInStudyplan_containAllMandatoryCourses checks that a semester in a studyplan contains all the mandatory courses for the studyprogramme or specialisation linked to the semester. validateSemesterInStudyplan_hasAllNeccesaryPoints checks that a semester in a studyplan contains over 30 credits. validateElective_courseInStudyPlan checks that the course in the elective is in the studyplan of the programme or specialisation that semester.
 </p>
 
 ## Assignment 2
 
 Changes to Assignment 1 project:
 - Added departmnet class for containment reasons which has containment to programme, course and individualStudy plan classes.
 - Added a more proper containment hierarchy
 - Added department.xmi
 - Added (default package) in src/ with load resource class for testing model transformations.
 - Added numberOfCourses to the Semester class as a derived feature.
 
 #### Assignment1.test
 Contains the test code for the project. The only test can be found in src/ecore.tests/SemesterTest.java under the name testGetNumberOfCourses which tests the derived feauture numberOfCourses. To run it, go to src/ecore.tests/SemesterTest.java StudyPlanAllTests.java and run it as JUnit test.
 
 #### org.xtext.example.mydsl1
  Contains the logic for coverting a the data in a .xmi file to html output. The output of this transformation can be found in the webpage.html file which can be opened in any browser. This file is generated by running the Transform2HTML class found in src/org.xtext.example.mydsl1 as a java aplication. This class creates correspomnding objects from the deparment.xmi file which can be found in the same directory. This xmi has been created from the genmodel in Assignment1 project and the classes generated are also from this project. The root department object is sent to the HtmlMaker.xtend which again bulids a html string by traversing down the hierarchy in the department object. This string is sent back to Transform2HTML which puts the string in webpage.html.
 
 
